content/step-10.md, before:

+++
title = "Kubernetes Installation: kubeadm and kubelet"
weight = 10
+++

# Kubernetes Installation: kubeadm, kubelet, kubelet systemd service

1. Check the latest Kubernetes version.

```ctr:kubernetes
curl -sSL https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt -w "\n"
```

2. Install kubeadm, kubelet, and kubelet systemd service

```ctr:kubernetes
RELEASE="$(curl -sSL https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)"
ARCH="amd64"
RELEASE_VERSION="v0.16.2"
```

```ctr:kubernetes
cd $DOWNLOAD_DIR
sudo curl -L --remote-name-all https://dl.k8s.io/release/${RELEASE}/bin/linux/${ARCH}/{kubeadm,kubelet}
sudo chmod +x {kubeadm,kubelet}
```

```ctr:kubernetes
curl -sSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/release/${RELEASE_VERSION}/cmd/krel/templates/latest/kubelet/kubelet.service" | sed "s:/usr/bin:${DOWNLOAD_DIR}:g" | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service
```

```ctr:kubernetes
sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d
```

```ctr:kubernetes
curl -sSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/release/${RELEASE_VERSION}/cmd/krel/templates/latest/kubeadm/10-kubeadm.conf" | sed "s:/usr/bin:${DOWNLOAD_DIR}:g" | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/10-kubeadm.conf
cd ~
```

Expected output:

```shell
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   138  100   138    0     0    743      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--   745
100 48.4M  100 48.4M    0     0  23.7M      0  0:00:02  0:00:02 --:--:-- 31.7M
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   138  100   138    0     0   2432      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  2464
100  105M  100  105M    0     0   156M      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  156M
[Unit]
Description=kubelet: The Kubernetes Node Agent
Documentation=https://kubernetes.io/docs/
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kubelet
Restart=always
StartLimitInterval=0
RestartSec=10

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
# Note: This dropin only works with kubeadm and kubelet v1.11+
[Service]
Environment="KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS=--bootstrap-kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/bootstrap-kubelet.conf --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf"
Environment="KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS=--config=/var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml"
# This is a file that "kubeadm init" and "kubeadm join" generates at runtime, populating the KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS variable dynamically
EnvironmentFile=-/var/lib/kubelet/kubeadm-flags.env
# This is a file that the user can use for overrides of the kubelet args as a last resort. Preferably, the user should use
# the .NodeRegistration.KubeletExtraArgs object in the configuration files instead. KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS should be sourced from this file.
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/kubelet
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kubelet $KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS $KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS
```

3. Enable and start kubelet

```ctr:kubernetes
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet
```

Expected output:

```shell
Created symlink /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/kubelet.service → /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.
```

Note: The kubelet is crashlooping while waiting for kubeadm

Commit message:

tidy up kubernetes and containerd install

content/step-10.md, after:

+++
title = "Kubernetes Installation: kubeadm and kubelet"
weight = 10
+++

# Kubernetes Installation: kubeadm, kubelet, kubelet systemd service

1. Check the latest Kubernetes version.

```ctr:kubernetes
curl -sSL https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt -w "\n"
```

2. Install kubeadm, kubelet, and kubelet systemd service.

```ctr:kubernetes
RELEASE="$(curl -sSL https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)"
ARCH="amd64"
RELEASE_VERSION="v0.16.2"
```

```ctr:kubernetes
cd $DOWNLOAD_DIR
sudo curl -L --remote-name-all https://dl.k8s.io/release/${RELEASE}/bin/linux/${ARCH}/{kubeadm,kubelet}
```

Make kubeadm and kubelet executable.

```ctr:kubernetes
sudo chmod +x {kubeadm,kubelet}
```

Download the kubelet systemd unit file.

```ctr:kubernetes
curl -sSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/release/${RELEASE_VERSION}/cmd/krel/templates/latest/kubelet/kubelet.service" | sed "s:/usr/bin:${DOWNLOAD_DIR}:g" | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service
```

```ctr:kubernetes
sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d
```

The 10-kubeadm.conf file is the configuration for how systemd should run the kubelet. Download the 10-kubeadm.conf file.

```ctr:kubernetes
curl -sSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/release/${RELEASE_VERSION}/cmd/krel/templates/latest/kubeadm/10-kubeadm.conf" | sed "s:/usr/bin:${DOWNLOAD_DIR}:g" | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/10-kubeadm.conf
cd ~
```

Expected output:

```shell
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   138  100   138    0     0    743      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--   745
100 48.4M  100 48.4M    0     0  23.7M      0  0:00:02  0:00:02 --:--:-- 31.7M
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   138  100   138    0     0   2432      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  2464
100  105M  100  105M    0     0   156M      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  156M
[Unit]
Description=kubelet: The Kubernetes Node Agent
Documentation=https://kubernetes.io/docs/
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kubelet
Restart=always
StartLimitInterval=0
RestartSec=10

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
# Note: This dropin only works with kubeadm and kubelet v1.11+
[Service]
Environment="KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS=--bootstrap-kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/bootstrap-kubelet.conf --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf"
Environment="KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS=--config=/var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml"
# This is a file that "kubeadm init" and "kubeadm join" generates at runtime, populating the KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS variable dynamically
EnvironmentFile=-/var/lib/kubelet/kubeadm-flags.env
# This is a file that the user can use for overrides of the kubelet args as a last resort. Preferably, the user should use
# the .NodeRegistration.KubeletExtraArgs object in the configuration files instead. KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS should be sourced from this file.
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/kubelet
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kubelet $KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS $KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS
```

3. Enable and start kubelet

```ctr:kubernetes
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet
```

Expected output:

```shell
Created symlink /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/kubelet.service → /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.
```

Note: The kubelet is crashlooping while waiting for kubeadm
